docs: update session expiration page. (#74936)
metabase/metabase: docs/people-and-groups/changing-session-expiration.md

# Session expiration

When someone logs in — whether by email and password or through an SSO provider — Metabase creates a session that keeps them logged in across tabs and pages. A session can end in three ways: closing the browser, hitting the absolute session age limit, or going idle long enough to trigger an inactivity timeout. Here's how each is configured, how they interact, and when you'd want to use them.

Clearing browser cookies or cache manually ends a session immediately, regardless of any of these settings.

> ## Set the absolute session limit with MAX_SESSION_AGE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set the absolute session limit with `MAX_SESSION_AGE`
```

> `MAX_SESSION_AGE` controls the maximum number of minutes a session can live from the time of login. A person with hundreds of tabs open who hasn't rebooted in months will get logged out two weeks after their last login (even if they had checked the **Remember me** box on the login page).

Reviewer: I don't like referencing "two weeks" _before_ we say that this is configurable

Author: fixed! thanks!

The default value is 14 days. To set a custom value, use the environment variable (in minutes):

```sh
# sessions expire after 24 hours
MAX_SESSION_AGE=1440 java --add-opens java.base/java.nio=ALL-UNNAMED -jar metabase.jar
```

This setting applies equally to everyone regardless of their browser behavior or activity patterns. Use it when your security policy requires people to log in again on a predictable schedule.

## Log people out after inactivity

{% include plans-blockquote.html feature="Session timeout" %}

`MB_SESSION_TIMEOUT` controls how long a session can be inactive before it ends. Someone who opens Metabase in the morning, uses it for an hour, and then spends the rest of the day in other tools will be logged out once the inactivity window closes.

> > **Note:** A dashboard left open with auto-refresh enabled counts as activity and keeps the session alive, even in a background tab.

Reviewer: Do notifications (e.g. alerts) count as activity?

Author: Added a clarification .. this setting cares only about the browser session .. alerts/subscriptions are scheduled things from quartz and dot interact with or are connected to any browser session.

Thanks, the additional clarification should help fend of confusion

> Configure it in the UI (**Admin** > **Authentication** > **Overview**), or set it as an environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure session time out, go to **Admin** > **Authentication** > **Overview**, or set an environment variable:
```

"Configure it in the UI" is not very user-friendly language

```sh
# log out after 2 hours of inactivity
MB_SESSION_TIMEOUT='{"amount":120,"unit":"minutes"}' java --add-opens java.base/java.nio=ALL-UNNAMED -jar metabase.jar
```

> The UI offers `minutes` and `hours` as units. The environment variable also accepts `seconds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if you're configuring session timeout in Metabase Admin settings, you need to specify the timeout only in minutes or hours, but the `MB_SESSION_TIMEOUT` variable also accepts `"unit":"seconds"`.
```
